h1. AWeber API Gem

Official AWeber API gem.

h2. Installation

@gem install aweber@

h2. Getting Started

This guide assumes you have nothing previously setup to work with the AWeber API. It will walk through registering an account, creating an app and everything up to the point where you'll actually start working with data.

If you don't want to bother with all the account setup stuff, you can look in the "examples":http://github.com/aweber/aweber-ruby/tree/master/examples/ directory for just example code.

*Requires a normal AWeber account (not a Labs account)*

h3. 1. Register an AWeber Labs Account

Head to "http://labs.aweber.com":http://labs.aweber.com and sign up for a free AWeber Labs account. This is how you register apps and get OAuth keys.

h3. 2. Create an App

Once logged in, _Create a New App_. Once created, it will show you the Consumer Key and Secret for that app.

h3. 3. Write Some Code

h4. The OAuth Handler

bc. oauth = AWeber::OAuth.new('consumer_key', 'consumer_secret')

h4. Authorize an Account

Open, what the following outputs, in a browser and use your AWeber account credentials. This will give your app permission to work with your account's data:

bc. oauth.request_token.verification_url

h4. Verification Code

After you do the above step, it will output a "Verification Code". Copy this and verify your @oauth@ object:

bc. oauth.authorize_with_verifier('verification_code')

h4. Grab an AWeber::Base

bc. aweber = AWeber::Base.new(oauth)

This object is how you access data from your account. @aweber.account@ is your account object which is the stem for all other resources. Take a look at the next section, "Usage", to find out how to work with different resources.

h2. Usage

h3. Resource Traversal

Getting resource data is much like traversing associations in ActiveRecord. Everything starts with the @account@ object and goes from there:

bc.. aweber.account.lists           #=> #<AWeber::Collection>
aweber.account.lists[123]      #=> #<AWeber::Resource::List>
aweber.account.lists[123].name #=> "WhateverList"

h3. Collections

@aweber.account.lists@ in the example above would be a Collection. Collections act like a normal Hash. Resources of a collection are accessed normally, using @[]@ with the key being the ID of the resource.

h4. find_by_*

Collections also support ActiveRecord style @find_by_*@ methods:

bc. aweber.account.lists.find_by_name("testlist")

h3. Resources

Resources are elements of a Collection. A single list resource would be retrieved with:

bc. aweber.account.lists[1234]

h2. Updating Resources

Currently, subscribers are the only resource you can update via the API. Everything else is read only for the time being.

h3. Updateable Subscribers

* name
* misc_notes
* email
* status
* last_followup_message_number_sent
* custom_fields (Hash of key/value pairs)
* ad_tracking

h3. Moving Subscriber From List to List

bc. new_list = aweber.account.lists[1234]
subscriber.list = new_list

h3. Example

bc. subscriber = account.lists[654321].subscribers[123456]
subscriber.name = "New Name"
subscriber.save

h2. Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

h2. Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010-2011 AWeber Communications, Inc. See LICENSE for more detail.
